---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: 'Marketing, Agency, Campaigns, Digital, Germany, 2016'
datePublished: '2016-01-03T19:07:46.693Z'
dateModified: '2016-01-03T19:07:26.165Z'
title: 'The State of Digital in Germany (Pt. III): Agencies & campaigns'
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-01-03-the-state-of-digital-in-germany-pt-iii-agencies-and-campai.md
published: true
url: the-state-of-digital-in-germany-pt-iii-agencies-and-campai/index.html
_type: Article

---
# **The State of Digital in Germany (Pt. III): Agencies & campaigns**

**In this
last chapter about the digital world in Germany in 2016 I don't want to talk
about award-winning agencies (like Grabarz & Partner) or engaging ads (like
Jung von Matt for Edeka), but about the struggle both agencies and their
clients face in the digital sphere and how to create truly digital campaigns
worth their name. **
![](https://the-grid-user-content.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/4d0f9174-fa28-4b73-ba36-119b88e2dbea.png)

I already
covered the state of mind in most German agencies in Part I, but would like to
elaborate that fact a little bit more. Most agencies and their clients are
struggling to digitalize their business and their staff. The respective
managing boards have heard of digital media, but are no advocates in using it.
Their day-to-day-routine often prevents them from joining forward-moving
discussions online or offline, when attending conferences or similar events. So
they have to rely on what the media or others say -- Germans are no big fans of
digital things.

This
results in mediocre campaigns, who only claim to be digital. But why? Both in
the client and agency world the classic marketing units are beating the drum,
while the digital units are still side-lined with less staff, money or internal
prestige. The good-old advertising procedure is still pretty much valid
everywhere: "We have a product. We need a good TV spot. We put the spot on
behind-the-scenes on You Tube. We post the spot on Facebook. We do out-of-home.
We put ads in magazines etc". Some agencies are already pretty good in creating
digital noise across different channels and this seems to be already enough for
most clients. 

Some
agencies already know how to step into the future and carry out truly digital
campaigns. With the help of freelancers like the Medienlotse (as project
manager, content-creator or storyteller) or specialised digital experts like
Nerdindustries (who did the Audi Cube together with PuK and won a Cannes Lion) they
successfully scale network effects for their business. Unfortunately, there are
far less counterparts on the clients' side than digital-enabled agencies.
Additionally, the big advertising spenders from the automotive or energy
industry are facing business problems and might cut their marketing spending
very soon. 

Again,
start-ups might show a way into the digital future of Germany (Protonet won a
Silver Lion with KolleRebbe for "How China are you"). Here the deciders are
often younger or are leading the digitalization in their industry themselves. 

**Summary
(Pt. I-III)**

2016 will
be another intermission year for the digitalization in Germany. The government
still isn't fully devoted to creating fast internet connections everywhere or
in liberating bans on creativity (copyright and Wifi issues). Agencies and
clients face the same challenges and have to become digital virtually overnight
in order to save their business for the future. Startups, on the other hand,
are still able to escapes those challenges, because they work at the core of
digitalization or are developing ideas to overcome the ancient digital
infrastructure in Germany.